[DOCS] Installing Application Guide (#5695)
ClanGenOfficial/clangen: docs/user-guides/tech-help/installing-app.md

# Installing Application

> "Application" refers to the packaged version of ClanGen that most people are familiar with. It comes with a launcher (clangen.exe) and is relatively easy to install.

Reviewer: `clangen.exe` is Windows specific. Perhaps refer to "executable" and list (.exe, .app) instead of just .exe

> Yes, this guide can also work and apply with **up-to-date** mods. You just have to take the initiative to change some details to reflect the mod you're installing. Make sure to read the instructions carefully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, this guide can also work and apply to **up-to-date** mods. You just have to take the initiative to change some details to reflect the mod you're installing. Make sure to read the instructions carefully.
```

---

> ## QNA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## FAQ
```

> A brief QNA for questions that might want to be answered before the download process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A brief FAQ for questions that might want to be answered before the download process.
```

### Can the application version be modded?

It depends on what mod you want to add. If the mod in question is an add-on that requires you to install and/or modify .py files, **no**.

> The application does not allow the player access to the core coding of the game. You will need the source version for that (see the installing UV tab).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application does not allow the player access to the source code of the game. You will need the source version for that (see the installing UV tab).
```

### Decompressing/Unzipping

Unsure how to decompress the files/folder?

- Windows: Right-click the zipped folder and select "Extract all"
- macOS: Double-click the zipped folder to decompress
- ChromeOS: Chrome does not have a straightforward way to decompress, so double-click the zipped folder to open its contents, highlight all contents using Ctrl + A, then drag all of the contents out of the zipped folder into a regular folder

Unable to decompress a zip due to the program asking for pay? Delete the program you currently have and download [7zip](https://7-zip.org/download.html) or another free alternative. You should not have to PAY to unzip something.

### Terminology

If you are unsure of the terms I'm using and how they apply to installing the game, please check here for definitions! Apologies if I miss something.

**Operating system**: The device's system, such as Windows, macOS, chromeOS, or Linux.

- If you do not know what operating system you're using, you can find it in your device's "system" settings.

> **Source**: A version of ClanGen that gives you access to ClanGen's core coding, rather than it being compressed into an easy-to-use launcher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Source**: A version of ClanGen that gives you access to ClanGen's source code, rather than it being compressed into an easy-to-use launcher.
```

- Source can be BOTH stable and development. Source =/= development

> **Application**: Application refers to the exe install that has all the core coding compressed into the application launcher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Application**: Application refers to the executable install that has all the source code compressed into the application launcher.
```

Open the Linux terminal/terminal app.

Type `wget` into the terminal, and paste the previous link address from before after the command. You should be left with something similar to:

```console
wget https://clangen.io/api/v1/Update/Channels/stable/Releases/Latest/Artifacts/linux2.35
```

Once the command is done "saving to: linux2.35" without an error, proceed with the next command.

```console
tar -xf linux2.35
```

This is extracting the ClanGen game the terminal downloaded. It is normal for nothing to show in the terminal once the command is sent.

---

Open your file manager and proceed to your Linux files. You will see a newly generated `Clangen` folder and a `linux2.35` file present in the Linux files. Delete the `linux2.35` file.

- The `Clangen` folder is your games folder, and you can rename this folder if you're installing a mod, development, or would like multiple ClanGen versions downloaded. **Renaming the folder will change your run command.**

### Run Command

After you check on your Linux files, open or go back to your terminal. Type in the following command:

```console
./Clangen/Clangen
```

> If you renamed the folder, the first Clangen as shown in the example should reflect the folder you renamed. If you renamed it to ClangenDev, for example, `./ClangenDev/Clangen`. Capitalization is important for this command.

Reviewer: Perhaps mention autocomplete by pressing tab in the terminal for file and folder paths?

Author: I'm quite clueless about the autocomplete commands, so hopefully the tip comment is okay? imk if you had something else in mind

---

## Windows

The only download locations for ClanGen are: [clangen.io](https://clangen.io/download), [itch.io](https://sablesteel.itch.io/clan-gen-fan-edit), and [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/ClanGenOfficial/clangen/releases). DO NOT download elsewhere, or trust another user to give you a zip of the ClanGen download.

### Downloading

Navigate to the clangen.io download page listed above and download the Windows option reflecting your device's operating system.

- Windows 10+: Windows 10 and newer

> - Windows 64: intended for Windows 7/8 devices, but newer Windows devices can also install this

Reviewer: Windows 7 is broken atm
